compare.md, before:


title: Riot vs React vs Polymer
subtitle: Compare
description: How Riot differs from React and Polymer

====

# React

Riot 2.0 is inspired by React and from the idea of "cohesion". According to Facebook developers:

> "Templates separate technologies, not concerns."

We should be building reusable components instead of templates. By separating logic from the templates we are actually keeping out things that should be together.

By combining these related technologies together under the same component the system becomes cleaner. We respect React because of this important insight.

React worked well for us, and we still use it in our [Disqus Importer](/importer/) but we were bothered by the syntax and size of React (*especially* the syntax). We started thinking it could be simpler; both internally and for the user.


### React syntax

The following example was taken directly from the React home page:


```
var TodoList = React.createClass({
  render: function() {
    var createItem = function(itemText) {
      return <li>{itemText}</li>;
    };
    return <ul>{this.props.items.map(createItem)}</ul>;
  }
});
var TodoApp = React.createClass({
  getInitialState: function() {
    return {items: [], text: ''};
  },
  onChange: function(e) {
    this.setState({text: e.target.value});
  },
  handleSubmit: function(e) {
    e.preventDefault();
    var nextItems = this.state.items.concat([this.state.text]);
    var nextText = '';
    this.setState({items: nextItems, text: nextText});
  },
  render: function() {
    return (
      <div>
        <h3>TODO</h3>
        <TodoList items={this.state.items} />
        <form onSubmit={this.handleSubmit}>
          <input onChange={this.onChange} value={this.state.text} />
          <button>{'Add #' + (this.state.items.length + 1)}</button>
        </form>
      </div>
    );
  }
});

React.render(<TodoApp />, mountNode);
```

JSX is mixture of HTML and JavaScript. You can include HTML anywhere on the component; inside methods and in property assignments.


### Riot syntax

Here is the above thing with Riot:

``` html
<todo>
  <h3>TODO</h3>

  <ul>
    <li each={ item, i in items }>{ item }</li>
  </ul>

  <form onsubmit={ handleSubmit }>
    <input>
    <button>Add #{ items.length + 1 }</button>
  </form>

  this.items = []

  handleSubmit(e) {
    var input = e.target[0]
    this.items.push(input.value)
    input.value = ''
  }
</todo>
```

And this is how the above tag is mounted on a page:

```
<todo></todo>

&lt;script>riot.mount('todo')</script>
```

### Same, but different

In Riot HTML comes first and JavaScript second. Both are under the same component, but neatly separated from each other. The HTML can be mixed with JavaScript expressions.

No proprietary stuff, except the notation of enclosing expressions inside curly brackets.

You see less boilerplate. Less brackets, commas, system properties and method names. Strings can be interpolated: `"Hello {world}"` instead of `"Hello " + this.state.world` and methods can be defined with compact ES6 syntax. Just less everything.

We think Riot syntax is the cleanest way to separate layout and logic while enjoying the benefits of isolated components.


### String based vs DOM based

When a component is initialized React parses a string and Riot traverses a DOM tree.

Riot takes the expressions from the tree and on each run these expressions are evaluated and compared to the values on the DOM. When a value has changed the corresponding DOM node is updated.

Since these expressions can be cached an update cycle is fast. Going through 100 or 1000 expressions usually takes 1ms or less.

The React sync algorithm is much more complex since the HTML layout can change randomly after each update. Given the enormous challenge, Facebook developers did an impressive job with it.

We saw that the complex diffing can be avoided.

In Riot the HTML structure is fixed. Only loops and conditionals can add and remove elements. But a `div` cannot be converted to a `label` for example. Riot only updates the expressions without complex subtree replacements.


### Flux and routing

React deals with the UI only, which is a good thing. All great software projects have a sharp focus.

Facebook recommends to use [Flux](http://facebook.github.io/flux/docs/overview.html) to structure the client-side code. It's more of a pattern than a framework and is packed with great ideas.

Riot comes bundled with custom tags, an event emitter (observable) and router. We believe that these are the fundamental building blocks of client side applications. Events bring modularity, a router takes care of the URL and the back button and custom tags take care of the user interface.

Just like Flux, Riot is flexible and leaves the bigger architectural decisions for the developer. It's just a library to help you achieve the goal.

You can build a Flux-like system by using Riot's observable and router. In fact such thing [already exists](https://github.com/jimsparkman/RiotControl).


### 24x - 128x bigger

React is 24x bigger than Riot.

<small><em>react.min.js</em> – 127KB</small>
<span class="bar red"></span>

<small><em>riot.min.js</em> – 5.7KB</small>
<span class="bar blue" style="width: 4.3%"></span>

<br>

The recommended React router is 128x larger than Riot router.

<small><em>react-router.min.js</em> – 54.9KB</small>
<span class="bar red"></span>

<small><em>react-mini-router.min.js</em> – 8.6KB</small>
<span class="bar red" style="width: 15.6%"></span>

<small><em>riot.router.min.js</em> – 0.43KB</small>
<span class="bar blue" style="width: 0.7%"></span>

Admittedly this router comparison is a bit unfair because [react-router](https://github.com/rackt/react-router) has a lot more features. But the above chart clearly highlights the goal of Riot: to provide the most minimalistic API for the job.

The React ecosystem is more frameworky and favors larger API surfaces. The bigger alternative is more popular than [react-mini-router](https://github.com/larrymyers/react-mini-router) in the React community.


# Polymer

Polymer takes the Web Component standard and makes it available for the latest browsers. This allows you to write custom tags in a standard manner.

Conceptually Riot is the same thing but there are differences:

1. Riot updates only the elements that have changed resulting to less DOM operations.

2. Polymer syntax is more complex and requires one to study more books.

3. Individual components are imported with HTML `link rel="import"`. Polyfills must resort to queued up XHRs, which makes it painfully slow. Riot tags are imported with `script src` and multiple tags can be combined with regular tooling.

4. Polymer uses two-way data binding while riot uses one-way data binding.

5. No ability to perform server side rendering, which will be part of Riot in an upcoming version.


### 22x bigger

Polymer (v0.5.2) is 22x bigger than Riot

<small><em>polymer.min.js</em> – 120KB</small>
<span class="bar red"></span>

<small><em>riot.min.js</em> – 5.7KB</small>
<span class="bar blue" style="width: 4.5%"></span>

Web components are said to be the [King of all polyfilling challenges](http://developer.telerik.com/featured/web-components-arent-ready-production-yet/) and this is why Polymer requires such a large amount of code.


### Experimental

Polymer is based on experimental technology. Native Web Component support is not present in Safari or IE. IE status is "under consideration" and Safari plans are uncertain. Some WebKit [commits](https://lists.webkit.org/pipermail/webkit-dev/2013-May/024894.html) hint that they plan not to support it at all. And Polymer is only capable of polyfilling the _latest versions_ of “evergreen”  browsers (IE 10+).

Polymer project is over [2 years old](https://github.com/Polymer/polymer/commit/0452ada044a6fc5818902e685fb07bb4678b2bc2) and it hasn't gained any significant adoption. It's  uncertain whether Web Components will ever be natively supported.

Commit message:

Clarify how Riot virtual DOM works

compare.md, after:


title: Riot vs React vs Polymer
subtitle: Compare
description: How Riot differs from React and Polymer

====

# React

Riot 2.0 is inspired by React and from the idea of "cohesion". According to Facebook developers:

> "Templates separate technologies, not concerns."

We should be building reusable components instead of templates. By separating logic from the templates we are actually keeping out things that should be together.

By combining these related technologies together under the same component the system becomes cleaner. We respect React because of this important insight.

React worked well for us, and we still use it in our [Disqus Importer](/importer/) but we were bothered by the syntax and size of React (*especially* the syntax). We started thinking it could be simpler; both internally and for the user.


### React syntax

The following example was taken directly from the React home page:


```
var TodoList = React.createClass({
  render: function() {
    var createItem = function(itemText) {
      return <li>{itemText}</li>;
    };
    return <ul>{this.props.items.map(createItem)}</ul>;
  }
});
var TodoApp = React.createClass({
  getInitialState: function() {
    return {items: [], text: ''};
  },
  onChange: function(e) {
    this.setState({text: e.target.value});
  },
  handleSubmit: function(e) {
    e.preventDefault();
    var nextItems = this.state.items.concat([this.state.text]);
    var nextText = '';
    this.setState({items: nextItems, text: nextText});
  },
  render: function() {
    return (
      <div>
        <h3>TODO</h3>
        <TodoList items={this.state.items} />
        <form onSubmit={this.handleSubmit}>
          <input onChange={this.onChange} value={this.state.text} />
          <button>{'Add #' + (this.state.items.length + 1)}</button>
        </form>
      </div>
    );
  }
});

React.render(<TodoApp />, mountNode);
```

JSX is mixture of HTML and JavaScript. You can include HTML anywhere on the component; inside methods and in property assignments.


### Riot syntax

Here is the above thing with Riot:

``` html
<todo>
  <h3>TODO</h3>

  <ul>
    <li each={ item, i in items }>{ item }</li>
  </ul>

  <form onsubmit={ handleSubmit }>
    <input>
    <button>Add #{ items.length + 1 }</button>
  </form>

  this.items = []

  handleSubmit(e) {
    var input = e.target[0]
    this.items.push(input.value)
    input.value = ''
  }
</todo>
```

And this is how the above tag is mounted on a page:

```
<todo></todo>

&lt;script>riot.mount('todo')</script>
```

### Same, but different

In Riot HTML comes first and JavaScript second. Both are under the same component, but neatly separated from each other. The HTML can be mixed with JavaScript expressions.

No proprietary stuff, except the notation of enclosing expressions inside curly brackets.

You see less boilerplate. Less brackets, commas, system properties and method names. Strings can be interpolated: `"Hello {world}"` instead of `"Hello " + this.state.world` and methods can be defined with compact ES6 syntax. Just less everything.

We think Riot syntax is the cleanest way to separate layout and logic while enjoying the benefits of isolated components.


### String based vs DOM based

When a component is initialized React parses a string and Riot traverses a DOM tree.

Riot takes the expressions from the tree and stores them to an array. Each expression has a pointer to a DOM node. On each run these expressions are evaluated and compared to the values on the DOM. When a value has changed the corresponding DOM node is updated. In a way Riot also has a virtual DOM, just much a simpler one.

Since these expressions can be cached an update cycle is fast. Going through 100 or 1000 expressions usually takes 1ms or less.

The React sync algorithm is much more complex since the HTML layout can change randomly after each update. Given the enormous challenge, Facebook developers did an impressive job with it.

We saw that the complex diffing can be avoided.

In Riot the HTML structure is fixed. Only loops and conditionals can add and remove elements. But a `div` cannot be converted to a `label` for example. Riot only updates the expressions without complex subtree replacements.


### Flux and routing

React deals with the UI only, which is a good thing. All great software projects have a sharp focus.

Facebook recommends to use [Flux](http://facebook.github.io/flux/docs/overview.html) to structure the client-side code. It's more of a pattern than a framework and is packed with great ideas.

Riot comes bundled with custom tags, an event emitter (observable) and router. We believe that these are the fundamental building blocks of client side applications. Events bring modularity, a router takes care of the URL and the back button and custom tags take care of the user interface.

Just like Flux, Riot is flexible and leaves the bigger architectural decisions for the developer. It's just a library to help you achieve the goal.

You can build a Flux-like system by using Riot's observable and router. In fact such thing [already exists](https://github.com/jimsparkman/RiotControl).


### 24x - 128x bigger

React is 24x bigger than Riot.

<small><em>react.min.js</em> – 127KB</small>
<span class="bar red"></span>

<small><em>riot.min.js</em> – 5.7KB</small>
<span class="bar blue" style="width: 4.3%"></span>

<br>

The recommended React router is 128x larger than Riot router.

<small><em>react-router.min.js</em> – 54.9KB</small>
<span class="bar red"></span>

<small><em>react-mini-router.min.js</em> – 8.6KB</small>
<span class="bar red" style="width: 15.6%"></span>

<small><em>riot.router.min.js</em> – 0.43KB</small>
<span class="bar blue" style="width: 0.7%"></span>

Admittedly this router comparison is a bit unfair because [react-router](https://github.com/rackt/react-router) has a lot more features. But the above chart clearly highlights the goal of Riot: to provide the most minimalistic API for the job.

The React ecosystem is more frameworky and favors larger API surfaces. The bigger alternative is more popular than [react-mini-router](https://github.com/larrymyers/react-mini-router) in the React community.


# Polymer

Polymer takes the Web Component standard and makes it available for the latest browsers. This allows you to write custom tags in a standard manner.

Conceptually Riot is the same thing but there are differences:

1. Riot updates only the elements that have changed resulting to less DOM operations.

2. Polymer syntax is more complex and requires one to study more books.

3. Individual components are imported with HTML `link rel="import"`. Polyfills must resort to queued up XHRs, which makes it painfully slow. Riot tags are imported with `script src` and multiple tags can be combined with regular tooling.

4. Polymer uses two-way data binding while riot uses one-way data binding.

5. No ability to perform server side rendering, which will be part of Riot in an upcoming version.


### 22x bigger

Polymer (v0.5.2) is 22x bigger than Riot

<small><em>polymer.min.js</em> – 120KB</small>
<span class="bar red"></span>

<small><em>riot.min.js</em> – 5.7KB</small>
<span class="bar blue" style="width: 4.5%"></span>

Web components are said to be the [King of all polyfilling challenges](http://developer.telerik.com/featured/web-components-arent-ready-production-yet/) and this is why Polymer requires such a large amount of code.


### Experimental

Polymer is based on experimental technology. Native Web Component support is not present in Safari or IE. IE status is "under consideration" and Safari plans are uncertain. Some WebKit [commits](https://lists.webkit.org/pipermail/webkit-dev/2013-May/024894.html) hint that they plan not to support it at all. And Polymer is only capable of polyfilling the _latest versions_ of “evergreen”  browsers (IE 10+).

Polymer project is over [2 years old](https://github.com/Polymer/polymer/commit/0452ada044a6fc5818902e685fb07bb4678b2bc2) and it hasn't gained any significant adoption. It's  uncertain whether Web Components will ever be natively supported.
